# Homework 02: Robot Samples Meteorite Landing Sites on Mars

## Description
This code generates five Martian meteorite landing sites in Syrtis Major. It then calculates the time that it will take a robot to visit all five sites and collect samples..

### generate\_sites.py
This script generates five metorite landing sites and their latitude, longitude, and composition, and then adds them to a list of dictionaries according to site id. It then writes the aforementioned list of dictionaries to a JSON file called `landing_sites.json` and saves them to the script directory for usage in `calculate_trip.py`. This script must be run prior to `calculate_trip.py` is executed.

### calculate\_trip.py
This script reads the `landing_sites.json` file generated by `generate_trips.py` and uses the great-circle distance formula (function definition is an altered version of the definition provided by Joe Wallen via Slack, shown in the codeblock below) to calculate the time the robot spends traveling and taking samples (sample times vary per site composition: 1 hour for stony samples, 2 hours for iron samples, and 3 hours for stony-iron samples).

```
import math
mars_radius = 3389.5    # km

def calc_gcd(latitude_1: float, longitude_1: float, latitude_2: float, longitude_2: float) -> float:
    lat1, lon1, lat2, lon2 = map( math.radians, [latitude_1, longitude_1, latitude_2, longitude_2] )
    d_sigma = math.acos( math.sin(lat1) * math.sin(lat2) + math.cos(lat1) * math.cos(lat2) * math.cos(abs(lon1-lon2)))
    return ( mars_radius * d_sigma )
```

## Usage

Script `calculate_trip.py` depends on `generate_sites.py` and therefore must be run after `generate_sites.py`. 

To run `generate_sites.py`:

```
python3 generate_sites.py

```

Between running scripts, it may be wise to confirm that `landing_sites.json` was properly generated.

```
cat landing_sites.json
```

The output should resemble this:

```
{
  "sites": [
    {
      "site_id": 1,
      "latitude": 16.825935832749565,
      "longitude": 82.92678192126547,
      "composition": "iron"
    },
    {
      "site_id": 2,
      "latitude": 16.05428631063123,
      "longitude": 82.18511704366577,
      "composition": "stony-iron"
    },
    {
      "site_id": 3,
      "latitude": 17.60253381273197,
      "longitude": 82.19588106677921,
      "composition": "iron"
    },
    {
      "site_id": 4,
      "latitude": 17.629145780920066,
      "longitude": 83.78098708456514,
      "composition": "iron"
    },
    {
      "site_id": 5,
      "latitude": 16.82247072232727,
      "longitude": 83.24141531744367,
      "composition": "stony-iron"
    }
  ]
```

As you can se from the code block above, the `generate_sites.py` script generates a number of sites with a site\_id, latitude between 16.0 and 18.0 degrees, longitude between 82.0 and 84.0 degrees, and a composition of either `stony`, `iron`, or `stony-iron`.


Then it is safe to run `calculate_trip.py`:

```
python3 calculate_trip.py
```

Which should output something like the following:

```
leg = 1, time to travel = 7.18 hr, time to sample = 2 hr
leg = 2, time to travel = 1.1 hr, time to sample = 3 hr
leg = 3, time to travel = 9.54 hr, time to sample = 2 hr
leg = 4, time to travel = 13.95 hr, time to sample = 2 hr
leg = 5, time to travel = 8.56 hr, time to sample = 3 hr
===============================
number of legs = 5, total time elapsed = 52.33526330282136 hr
```
Each trip starts at a latitude of 16.0 degrees latitude and 82.0 degrees longitude. The robot then proceeds to the next leg of the trip, leg 1, which takes it 7.18 hours at a speed of 10 km / hr. Once it reaches its destination, it takes 2 hours to sample the landing composition. Each landing site composition dictates a different sample time. `stony`, `iron`, and `stony-iron` all have sampling times of 1, 2, and 3 hours, respectively.

Just by looking at `landing_sites.py`, one can see that the robot's path could be optomized if it were to travel to sites closer in latitude and longitude than the random order than `generate_sites.py` produces. An optomization of the robot's route would reduce in a shorter time elapsed and be more time and power effective.

